Generator definition within ciphersuite (#161)
decentralized-identity/bbs-signature: draft-bbs-signatures.md

This document defines one implementation of this method, `compute_generators_xof`, which uses [@!I-D.irtf-cfrg-hash-to-curve] with an extensible-output hash function to generate a sequence of points with a uniformly random distribution from a seed value and DST.

Each generator creation method must define a unique `GENERATORS_ID` identifier which is incorporated into the ciphersuite ID.

### Security Considerations

TODO

### compute\_generators\_xof

```
generators = compute_generators_xof(maxMessageCount);

Parameters:

- hash_to_curve_g1: A cryptographic hash function that takes as an arbitrary octet string input and returns a point in G1 as defined in [@!I-D.irtf-cfrg-hash-to-curve]. The expand_message method MUST be expand_message_xof, and hash MUST be the same as xof.
- generator_xof, an extensible-output cryptographic hash function.
- generator_dst, octet string. The domain separation tag.
- generator_seed, octet string. A unique seed value for the generator point sequence.

Inputs:

> - maxMessageCount (REQUIRED), non-negative integer. The maximum number of selectively-revealed messages to be supported.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- maxMessageCount (REQUIRED), non-negative integer. The number of generators to be returned.
```

If the operation is to be called inside each procedure, should this be something like the above?? Otherwise if this input is indeed the maximum number of messages that an issuer can (ever) sign, dosen't this dissallow what the previous version of the spec did (i.e., something like `g_i = hash_to_curve(PK || i || L)`) because in this case it will be weistfull to create maxMessageCount generators??

Author: It's meant to be the maximum number of messages supported by this set of generators, but yes that could be clearer. Having a dependency on L in the seed seems like a liability to me.

Reviewer: I agree regarding the seed and L dependency. I would much rather say that the input is a ciphersuite-defined seed. So we don't have to worry a lot about adversarial inputs which can be a pain to deal with (even if we use an XOF only).

IMO there are the following trade-offs in the different input choices to `compute_generators` :

- If we use maxMessageCount, the generators can be a parameter and not created in the procedure of each operation. This makes it clearer that they should be cached.
- On the cons side, it "forces" a hard upper limit to the number of messages that can be signed, without any "technical" reason. It also requires the users to define this number which may not be as "straight forward", since, the more messages they "support", the less efficient the operation will be and the more generators they will need to cache.
- Calling `compute_generators(L)` inside each procedure is clearer IMO and doesn't require more "work" from the implementer to define parameters.
- On the cons side, it may not be clear enough that the output of `compute_generators` should be cached and **NOT** be re-calculated each time.

I would personally go with option 2 and call `compute_generators(L)` inside each operation, with a note that the output must be cached (if it's not, it is not a security issue, just an efficiency one, so i think it's fine).

Reviewer: +1. In this case i would suggest `maxMessageCount` -> `MessageCount` (or `message_count`). I think this will be clearer.

Reviewer: Note, in this case `L` should be inputted to `ProofVerify`. Not really an issue (i know a lot of implementations do this already), just a note so i will not forget to update the inputs.

Outputs:

- generators, an array of generator points of length `maxMessageCount + 2`.

Procedure:

1. h = generator_xof(generator_seed)

> 2. length = maxMessageCount + 2

Reviewer: Just a though. It may be better to add the +2 when calling the function in the operations?? That way someone that is reading the procedures will not be confused why they got L+2 elements when they asked for L??

3. for i in 1 to length:

4.    generator_i = Identity_G1

5.    while(generator_i == Identity_G1 or generator_i == P1)

6.        candidate = hash_to_curve_g1(h.read(xof_no_of_bytes), generator_dst)

7.        if candidate not in generators: generator_i = candidate

8. return generators
```

> 

Reviewer: Since we are making the update, should we maybe consider a different procedure as well?? Something like,
```
Procedure:

1. L= maxMessageCount + 2
2. h_0 = hash(seed || I2OSP(0, 2))
3. h_1 = hash(h_0 || I2OSP(1, 2))
4. for i in 1 to L:
5.    generator_i = Identity_G1
6.    while(generator_i == Identity_G1 or generator_i == P1)
7.        candidate = hash_to_curve_g1(h_i, generator_dst)
8.        h_i = hash(strxor(h_0, h_(i-1)) || I2OSP(i, 2))
9.        if candidate not in generators: generator_i = candidate
10. return generators
```
Here `hash` can be an xof also. What i like about this is that let's say you have cached 1000 generators and you need to sign 1001 messages. In the current procedure you need to compute the 1000 generators from the beginning.  In this approach though, You only need to save the last `h_i` computed, and immediately calculate the next generator. Some notes,

- The input seed is not adversarially controlled so no need for more complicated procedures (because of the guarantees that this function gives, i.e., close to uniform output distribution)
- Is less efficient, but i really don't think that time efficiency is what we should optimize for here. Also, cases like the above will hurt performance. 
- Is usable with whatever hash is defined by the ciphersuite, so no need for extra parameters (this is related with the discussion in #162 as well)

Thoughts?? c.c. @mikelodder7, @tplooker^^

Author: I like the idea of using expand_message rather than defining something equivalent, but this method does make it harder to extend a cached list of generators.

Reviewer: Good point. Using `expand_message_xmd` you could save `b_0, last_i, b_(last_i)` as state and start from where you left of (and it will be easy to describe in the spec IMO). Using `expand_message_xof` though will be harder. However the current xof based construction has the same issue. So if people want this ability they can always use `expand_message_xmd` with an xof??

- octets\_to\_point_g2:
a function that returns the point P in the subgroup G2 corresponding to the canonical representation ostr, or INVALID if ostr is not a valid output of `point_to_octets_g2`.

**Generator computation parameters**:

- hash\_to\_curve\_g1:
A cryptographic hash function that takes as an arbitrary octet string input and returns a point in G1 as defined in [@!I-D.irtf-cfrg-hash-to-curve].

- generator\_dst: Domain separation tag used in the hash\_to\_curve\_g1 operation.

- generator\_seed: The seed used to compute the generators which form part of the public parameters used by the BBS signature scheme. Note there are multiple possible scopes for this seed including; a globally shared seed (where the resulting message generators are common across all BBS signatures); a signer specific seed (where the message generators are specific to a signer); a signature specific seed (where the message generators are specific per signature). The ciphersuite MUST define this seed OR how to compute it as a pre-cursor operations to any others.

> - generator\_xof: The extensible-output cryptographic hash function used in generator computation.

Reviewer: I don't see why we would need to use a different hash function for the generators only?? Since `compute_generators_xof` is optional, it seems weird to me to make the ciphersuite to **have** to define the `generator_xof` parameter (or the other `compute_generators_xof`  specific parameters, like `hash_to_curve_g1`).

Author: Yes, more likely it would just use the `hash` function. I'm not sure how best to specify the dependency between the hash used in `hash_to_curve_g1` and the other hash used in this method, and also require that it is an XOF. `hash_to_curve_g1`, `generator_seed` etc are meant to be parameters specific to the `compute_generators_xof` method and should probably be in their own section. I'm not sure yet if there is value in supporting `compute_generators` methods that don't necessarily depend on H2C, but maybe using a method that is agnostic of the hash type is good enough for now.

Reviewer: That's a good point! I can't even imagine what those methods (not h2c based) would look like.

> maybe using a method that is agnostic of the hash type is good enough for now.

Yeap! That's my thinking as well. That's why i took a shot in such a procedure [here](https://github.com/decentralized-identity/bbs-signature/pull/161#discussion_r887355556). Another option can be an hkdf based construction (we already have a "optional dependency" on hkdf for keyGen) or a expand_message based one (since 'compute_generators' depends on h2c either way) as i try to propose [here](https://github.com/decentralized-identity/bbs-signature/pull/161#discussion_r887793786). IMO we best use the same hash for everything. We could use a different hash for `hash_to_curve_g1` by just pointing to the defined h2c suite, but for creating the input seed we should use the bbs+ suite defined `hash`.

Another option can be to make the described `compute_generators` procedure a requirement, and define the `generators_xof` parameter to the ciphersuite as required. However, I'm really not a big fun of this approach.
